---
title: "Why game making is not for me"
date: 2022-07-10
---
TLDR: it is frustrating, initial idea and result have a huge difference, because I associate my
game ideas with emotions, that a player feels during the game. When playing a made game I don't
feel these emotions at all.

### Game feel

Game feel is the set of emotions that a person experiences during play session. Game feel is
subjective for everyone. It is **the only thing that defines game value[^1]**.

### How I used to make games

I came up with a spectacular game idea[^2]. Not long time after, I imagine a default play session,
what
a player should do, **how he would feel**. Right from the start I merge game feel with an idea. And
this is the path to failure.

Thing is, I'm a good engineer. I'm capable of implementing my game idea. But I also expect that
when playing a resulting game, I would experience expected emotions. And it never happens.
Probably, because it is a job of a game designer.

![](/resources/writings/gameidea_cycle.svg)

### Profession of a game designer

I think game designer is responsible for the game feel. It's a whole field, that I know nothing
about. Unlike me, a good game designer can predict what emotions will a player feel during a game.
Or, more importantly, game designer knows, **how** to change an existing product towards a better
game feel.

### Conclusion

To prevent frustration, I shouldn't connect ideas with emotions. If I find an idea to be fun in my
head, I should not expect it to be fun in reality. There are two ways to be better at making fun
games:

1. Learn some game design (not game creation)
2. Iterate, hoping that you are heading towards better game feel. Might not work.

[^1]: You might say: "What a bold statement! How about beautiful graphics? Interesting mechanics?
Don't you think that a game with a bad game feel is valuable because of its graphics?" No, I don't.
In this case graphics are valuable by themselves. You evaluate graphics from the point of its
visual value. Therefore, if a game has a bad game feel, it's bad as a game, it's not fun to play.
All its parts might be fine but game value is not defined by them in separate, important thing is
**how all pieces together contribute to the emotions that a player feels during the game**.

[^2]: In this context, I refer to the **game idea** as an interesting original mechanic, raw
gameplay loop, without much detail. I prototype this mechanic, because I think it would be fun to
play.